Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much, everyone. Again, we are going to address
the strengthening or the accurately our motivation of the positive motivation or virtuous
motivation.
Even which started with joy and appreciation, grateful or thankful, or gratitude. And then
vastness, motivation of the both each other, taking of all living beings, may they remove
from the suffering, cause of sufferings, may they always have joy, happiness, cause of joy
and happiness. And they may remain in economy all the time, or have great balance, understanding,
openness, that is, enriching those thoughts, which is again summarized or clearly made in
our boneless thoughts. Strongly and openly, kind of, genuinely raise up from our heart,
and we see that really mean that to every living beings. And then same time, also this universe
inhabited all in a three radial status, radial form, radial sound, and radial mind status.
Those are the reality nature of the way this universe inhabits, are according the teaching
of the Buddha, rid of the sambhava, or the great masters. So we activate those international
thought in our heart, and that is really to begin the practices, meditation or reflecting
on the teachings. Those are always important at the very beginning, and is also according teaching,
and we can hear throughout the teaching, throughout the practices. At the end, also we can delegate
the merit with those intentions. And then we kind of completed that practice period, but when we
are
in the world, also occasionally remembering, thinking of those is really very important.
We are touching to our home and sweet home, or we are touching back to our own best, which is so
practical and beautiful. And with those intentions, now again I'll go back to the teaching,
what we are continually going on, by all teachings of the best. What I'm teaching is the best
upon teaching by Jyadji, the new moochis. And we are talking about the three types of rafuts,
to the Buddha, Dharma, sambha. Then I also explained yesterday, the field of rafuts,
or in other words, field of merit. Field of merit in a debate is called tsoyen, yambi tsoyen.
The rafuts, taking rafu, or taking rafuts to the field of merit. F-E-I-L-D, I believe,
field, field of merit. So that means this, when we realize, when we feel the presence of this
rafut tree, commonly named as a rafut tree in the English, that is really a focal point,
and focal spot to activate our merits. Merits are important in order to reach enlightenment,
because that's the way it will also purify all the obscurations, hindrance of the enlightenment,
and our well-being of the realizations. So it is so important. So therefore then, as in the
teaching
I mentioned yesterday, there is nothing much to say about that. But I'd just like to highlight
that that rafut tree, or the field of merit, or the tsoyen, that encompasses three jewels
and three roots. And three jewels, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, and three roots are, the root of
blessing
is guru, and the root of blessing is yadam, or the deity. The root of fulfillment of the activity
is dakini and dharmapalas. So that, what rafut tree has all of that. And if I highlight that again,
and Buddha, Dharma, Sangha. And first we think, Buddha, what is Buddha there? Who is Buddha there?
Guru Pima sambhava is actually embodiment of all those three. Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, Guru,
devadakinis. Guru Pima sambhava is also known as sometimes named as one who embodies all the
obvious rafut. So even one Guru Pima sambhava, when we realize meditating on that, that alone
encompasses entirely all those field of merit. Then beside that, again, there is a representative
of
all those three jewels. Right on the right side of the Guru Pima sambhava, I said yesterday,
at tree that has at trunks, so not soryam, sorry, for five trunks, center trunk, that is Guru Pima
sambhava, sambhava, and all the lineage master lined up in the sky above Guru Pima sambhava,
that is center trunk. In the right side of Guru Pima sambhava, that has all the Buddha, right side
trunk, that has all the Buddhas of one thousand Buddhas of these fourteen years. That means past
Buddha, present Buddha, and future Buddhas. So that is all Buddhas. So taking rafut in the Buddha,
that all the Buddhas right there. And then very side of the Guru Pima sambhava on the trunk,
again, back trunk. So that we, if we go from the center trunk is the Guru Pima sambhava, and the
right side of the Guru Pima sambhava is all the Buddhas on the trunk of that. Again, big beautiful
global lot of Buddhas and all that, on the old Buddhas city. And the back trunk, or back side of
the trunk, beautiful lot of, again, beautiful sun and moon, all that. And there is then all the d
harmas
and all the dharmas of nayana teachings. All the eighty-four thousand teachings,
all the doctorate teachings. All are right there in the shimmering rainbow light with the sound
of the words and consonant, or the sound of each of those teachings. Very light, very activating
with light in the billions of light. And that is that. So that is dharma. So I take rafut in the
Buddha, I take rafut in the dharma. So that is all dharmas there. Dharmati possessed. And then
on the left side of the throne of the Guru Pima sambhava, there again beautiful lot of
full and big jagini. And there is also beautiful throne of the sun and lot of the moon raskas.
And there is all the Sangha members. Sangha members of the Mahayana and the Sangha members
of the Theravadas. Sangha members of the Mahayana are led by the egg-boding sattvas,
such as Mejishi, our local jhora, veggie pani, and then all the egg-bodies. Those are not going to
exist. And all that you can find out. Those are inside nimkal, kundal-zamal, dharma-nampal cell,
and material material material. The material is also one of the egg-boding sattvas. All that there.
And plus, all the body sattvas, all the massive bits of all the body sattvas. And then, all the
ahadas and Theravada sambhava, or the gendry Buddhist sambhava members, such as lead guide,
shari-puttara, mongol-puttara, maka-shappa, anand, nirang-upalis, and so forth. All those like
great
ahadas and fewer ahadas. All those are right there. So, that is really the old Sangha members.
So, that means we take rafuddhi in the Buddha, we take rafuddhi in the dharma, we take rafuddhi,
you know, in all the Sangha members, represent the symbol of that all in that filled of merits,
all there. So, that is the Buddha dharma-sambhava. Then, guru deva dakinis, three rules.
Again, and gurupya-masambhava is, again, represented, embodiment of all the gurus,
as I said earlier, and you all know that. And then, upon gurupya-masambhava, on the sky,
in the rainbow light, all the gurus of the three lineages in the nimma schools,
such as mind-to-mind transmission lineage, all the gurus of the mind-to-mind transmission lineages,
gurus of all the symbolic transmission lineages, gurus of all the oral transmission lineages,
and all assemblage tell, gurus of the whole, very gurus of the indias, all gurus of the,
all the Vedas, all the gurus, past the teachers of the Buddhists, those are highlighted that,
but only right in there. So, that is, I tell, rafuddhi in the gurus. That is what really
all that represented. Then, yanas, where they represented the yanas, right in front of the
gurupya-masambhava, again, there is a beautiful throne, throne, again, a beautiful floor,
beautiful sun and moon, also respected, respectively, respectively, of the idhi of
those deities, sitting on their own thrones, lord, sun, and moon baskets, and such as Vedic
laryas, high end gurus, yami takas, or adherukas, and as well as peaceful buddhas. All the buddhas,
peaceful buddhas are right there, and left side, again, right side is all peaceful buddhas,
left side of the deities, all the dakinis, such as Vedivarayas, line-passed dakinis,
and Vedayuginis, and as well as the kandramasana, or secret Muslim dakinis, and so forth,
all are decided right there, all this creative blessfulness on kandru yintex, and all those
dakinis are sitting right there, and then in front row of the idhams, all the dharmapalas,
such as Ekachati, Rahaula, Duryalipa, and Mahakalas, and all those dharmapalas there,
again, respectively, on their thrones, in each of them, even though this is like one kind of
tree, and it's over there where you like, but it is all vastness, it's not crowded, or it's made,
it just distinctively see clearly, openly, that beside everyone, each of them in their
own pure levels, their own pure level, their own rational step, so it's not something that
conception level, can't we make that those things, and it's tree that, but reality is just
completely
open, the universe is transformed as the multiple pure land of those each of us,
enlightened beings, that we open the wondrous joy of the enlightenment qualities,
quality of the realizations, and that is the beauty of the Vedaya dakinis,
we are opening that, we're not closed, shrank, limited, these and that things, vastness, purity
of all the enlightened beings, a period right in front of our eyes, to activate our realization,
our potentials, bring up to that qualities, as all that enlightenment, so that is really the
wonder, what these refuge trees, no, commonly in the western translated, refuge trees,
in a debate, it's called the Jambu Choyen, Jambu Choyen is filled of merits, filled of
merits, and the merits are, again, of course we could, I will show those later or the next time,
but true merits, accumulation merit, western merits, those are true merits, so this through this,
we can accumulate in the merit, activate that merit in power and qualities, and declare with
obscurations, negativities, habit patterns, so that we will be totally freedom, as from the duality
world, world of the grasping and clingy and the chaos things, with total freedom, as the celestial
bird, known as Garuda, Oranghula, Shatamali, Marapema, Sambamma, all those enlightened beings,
their total freedom, freedoms, in the area, where there in your freedom, then you completely,
everything in that, that beauty, this is, we don't have to struggle with hugs and fears,
all the time, and I'm kind of wondering what that trick, narrow corners, bouncing back and forth,
clashing each other's, always, but most of the time in the samsara, we get more fear than hugs,
that's really how we do, because of our joys, because of our obscurations, according to teachings
of the gracious teacher, Prasad Shatamali. So that is really about the rafuj trees,
once you talk rafujis, then there is, in stockings, in stockings, what things we should do,
and what things we should avoid, avoid. And when you tell rafujis, then always remember
Buddha Dharma Sangha, or Guru Deva Dakini's, that, and always do I try to do good,
beneficial activities, beneficial activities to my one's own self, to others directly, indirectly,
with mind from us. And remember, as I said yesterday, or the day before yesterday,
the cause of taking rafujis in the Mahayana, principally, is compassion. So it's not just
only, oh, I like to escape from samsara, therefore I'm taking rafujis, but in the Mahayana,
to attitude, I like to help to all these living beings, therefore I'm going to take rafujis.
Therefore, I like to go under the blessings of the Buddha Dharma Sangha, make myself strong,
so that I can benefit continually, unceasingly, for all living beings. That is the primary wishes
and primary determinations in the heart and mind of the practitioners of the Mahayana. So therefore
,
also when you take rafujis, or after you talk rafujis, always think of the old other beings,
how I can help, how I can benefit it, I'm not going to hurt them, and not going to kind of do
naked activities, because of my principles of the, as practitioners of the Mahayana,
or the total rafujis. Those are in the teachings. So there are general instructions of what things
to do, what things to avoid, those are all clearly mentioned in the words of my perfect teacher,
and other books that translate into reading, so I won't go over those things. But again,
with mindfully do the activity, something is good for the others, good for one's own self,
directly, indirectly. That is what we have to do with the good heart, with the compassion.
Good heart means a compassion, deep down is a compassion. And that compassion is the seed
of the Buddha. That is the energy of the Buddha Shakyamuni in the Gopin Masambha, or that is the
energy of the enlightenment, enlightenment means. And so, with that intention, trying to do that
activity with the assistance of one's own, most important friend, the mindfulness.
Mindfulness is our friend. Each of us, every activated our mindfulness, that is really the
best friend. So, get support from our mindfulness, always reminding ourselves to do the good things
as much as we can do. And when you can do, when you did that, or when you're doing, when you did,
you should feel happy. You should rejoice. You should acknowledge your own self. I did good.
Feel happy. This is not arrogance. This is not kind of pride, arrogance, but should happy, joy.
Inspire our self is so important. Of course, people can't say, "Oh, that person is inspired,
which is good, somebody inspired you, that is good." But to inspire one's own self is the most
powerful. Inspire our self, acknowledge that I did good. And in the same time, set forward the plan
,
plan the determination, "I will do, we, I will do even better next time." By the blessings of the
three of you and the three of you. Really, we can pray that I will do better. That's how we always
elevating our self and advancing. Advancing the path, that is. At the same time, if some of the
negative activities that happened, that directly hurt me to others or my own self, or also
indirectly,
try to avoid it. Immediately, that is detected by the mindfulness. And don't go that far,
try to not go that far. The moment we detect it, we try to release it, then stop. And it's all
the kind of thing, "Oh, oh, I did something kind of funny things that against it with my principle
after raffledges." Raffledges? So I'm not going to do it. By blessings of the Buddha,
Gharipema Samba, all the enlightenments, may I can tune easily from those happy patterns,
on wholesome, any kind of activities. Thinking of that, again, reset the commitment.
Courage. We do those. Those are known as practicing the Dharma. Practices. And again, we all know
that.
We remember that. It's very popular thing in this country. Practice makes perfect. Practice makes
perfect. That's how we do practices. Reminder to my own self. Reminding my own self is the best
reminder. If somebody else is reminded to ask that, most of the time it's very annoying.
It's very sensitive. We don't feel really comfortable. And maybe it will really react.
We react like he or she is always doing something. Always passing me. Always kind of making all
these
comments. What's that is? We will react. It's just if we want to observe, even it's really true.
When you accept. When you don't accept, when you react, even it's true. Then it just goes on the
complete opposite direction. Reminding by our self. One's own self. It's beautiful. It's more
effective.
More powerful. That's really what all these great master's practitioners really did.
So that is really what I just talked about generally. And again, in the words of my
perfect teacher and some of those great books which translated, there's more struggles then.
So you can see and look those things. Read that more and then. And then basically what I said,
that is a summarizing essence of that. Then I'd like to talk a little bit about retreat.
Big time, we're doing retreat. Our retreat is a situation, circumstances, a complete family.
Put us on this retreat that we all know. We all know. And for Buddhism, retreat is very powerful.
That is the highway of all those ancient masters. And also now, it's not just a once upon a time,
it happened, retreat, and that kind of million stories. It's very active, very active. It's
life, total life. Retreat is very, very powerful. Why? Because we like to change our understanding
of these samsaras. We like to really make the meaning of this very precious life. This life.
This precious life and this life, how long we will be here. What that always in Buddhism highlight
though, which is true. We're not going to be here for years. We are here for a short time.
Short time. In that short time period, maybe you already spent half of that or maybe even more
than half we already knew our life is finished. There is only how much left. So now in that short
period of time, whatever my life is, I really like to make some changes. My understanding of this
role and then make something progress. Where that progress? Not the external material world, but I
like to do something that progress within my mental state, mind. I like to develop something,
mind status. According to Buddhism, mind will go up with us from place to place. That means
from life to life. All the material things, whatever we have, we will leave behind.
Our mind is only welcome with us when we leave. According to Buddhism, as we all know, we believe
regret. We believe reincarnations. And now here we are here, we are incarnated of our previous
lives.
Now we are here. And we will be continuing like that for a long time. So when we reincarnate,
what really we cook is our mind or not about consciousness. According to the teaching,
whatever we developed with mind, that will come with us.
Come us. Whether it is good, whether it is bad, that will pull. Good is known as in Buddhism,
good comes and bad is known as bad comes. It will come. It will come as a shadow, according to it.
So therefore, I like to change the direction and like to have more kind of good comes.
That means more positive energy, more positive things in my mind. Therefore, I will do the retreat.
So retreat is solely dedicated to progress our inner qualities, inner qualities of the mind.
Improve the mind. What means improve the mind? When we do the retreat according to Buddhism,
it will bring more joy, more appreciation, more grateful, more loving kindness,
more compassion, more openness minds, openness minds, more freedom minds.
And then when that happens, our inner, the capabilities, our inner potentials,
our inner creativities and beautiful creativities, all that flows, calm, beautiful.
So that's what reason we do retreat. That's the principle. What means retreat?
Retreat is asked of course in the old, but in Tibetan it's some. So it's translated as
retreat, I believe. And retreat, according to the Tibetan word meaning some,
means I'm retreating from all the busy activities, busy activities of the mundane world.
What that is, what those are, it's called mundane busy activities of the physical,
mundane busy activities of the verbal of the speech and verbal of mundane busy activities
of the mental. So that I like to be kind of retreating from all those activities.
And for that reason, what is the teaching you see? Outer retreats, inner retreats,
secret retreats. In that three kind of divisions, originally in time what we are having,
our situation circumstances allowing us the outer retreats, outer retreats.
Outer retreat is all the physical busy activities, all the social activities that really
is kind of like, that it allowed us to do retreat. So now we are, we can relate retreat from social
activities, all the physical that kind of regular ego we do, those retreats that we are
doing retreat, which is wonderful and very beautiful. Now when we have that, then what
they do? In ancient time Buddhism, I mean the retreat is as I said so popular in Buddhism.
And the Buddha had terminated a retreat too. Even though they don't call it exactly, they don't use
the name or the terminology retreat, but six years in the Nalanda Bay of Narendra River,
Buddha did retreat six years and the offering is called ascetic retreat, ascetic retreats.
For six years he did retreat. And Guru Pemma Samba did retreat even though he is enlightened,
totally as the emanation of the of the Buddha Shakyamuni or reincarnation of Buddha Shakyamuni
and the emanation of the Amitabha. He did retreat in old cemeteries. He did retreat, all those
places.
So retreat is as I said, it's a big highway of all these great masters. We're talking about all the
great masters, list the names of all those masters. Everyone did retreat, everyone did.
I don't see anyone there did not do retreat. Really, hardly, anyone there. Maybe
came in that body, they did retreat. And that he called it teaching. He's so high in coverability,
practitioners, high in coverability, students, moment he received the teaching and then he just
enjoyed that king's environment and luckily standard and he reached enlightenment in the
teaching system. But still he did something because he changed the situation or the perspectives
of the of the king's luxury qualities. Even though he did not give up things, but he did
and he reached enlightenment within that life. But almost otherwise everyone really did retreat.
All those great thetans of the did retreat, all those master of the Kama self did retreat,
Gharab Duryi did retreat, Shiri Sangha did retreat, Manju Shiri Madarit did retreat and then Baman
Madarit did retreat, Vayajana did retreat. So we did retreat with this one now in this situation.
So therefore, this time we have, I'm not just joking, it's really true, everyone did
Nargayana did retreat, Arahadeva did retreat and then Aswendha did retreat. All those
integrated masters, everyone did retreat and really did it because when do you retreat?
What did that? It will allow the situational circumstance so that we can improve our
inner value or the potentials of our Balan nature. That is what really reason they do
retreats. And when you do retreat and there's two retreats, two retreats called then regular
retreat or the regular and one is called smooth retreat. Sanghopo, Sanghopo all the smooth and
soft retreat or tight retreats, tight retreats and many of those great master did tight retreats.
And there I will talk a little story of this type, those master did retreat,
those great master did retreat. How did they reach these situations? They're sitting up in the
caves
most of the time. When you say all those master did retreat in the cave on the beautiful mountain
and what was the wood, fresh air, beautiful panoramic woods and then also pristine and the
mountainous and the glacial and all that. It's true, it's really beautiful. But reality ever,
we have to stay there with that situation and the glacial mountain there, the glacial mountain
on the retreat in the caves. I don't know how we will do. I don't know you ask. In the cave you
must
think there is no running waters. There is no running hot waters. Don't mention hot waters.
And also there is no the pyres that you can turn the button and get a pyre. Pyre. So then and there
is no airhouse. So what do you do? You don't have. Still you have to eat. Still you have to cook
something. Still you have to heat up or at least boil your water. Tea. So what they do? And then
to have to have water. To have to have firewood. Firewood. And to get water. Some places, even the
cave where the cave there is no, not every cave has a running water nearby. Nearby. Maybe one
miles. Two miles have to go get water. Water is true. It's really true. It's true. And there is
no firewood that you can get immediately. So many. You have to go in the collected
pyre woods. And up in the glacial mountain there is not an actual wood you can get. Maybe
shrubs of the bushes, dry bushes, some you are lucky you can find. Otherwise you have to get
something that can make the fire. Many times those are used domes. Different domes used.
So that means water has to be saved.
Get the water away and make the fire. And then you can imagine there is no heating
systems in the cave. Or there is no cooling systems in the caves.
Caves. So that's really what they do. But still they do it. They are happy. They are so excited.
They should show freedoms. Freedoms. And they make the wind. Did you retweet? How many
pyre woods? They make all the pyre woods. Divided at least four pyre woods. In the morning,
late morning, afternoon, in the evening, and maybe late evening.
One of the greatest teachers, the teacher said in the teaching said in early morning
and late evening she would practice. And that means the whole day. In early morning,
it's not early morning until late evening. You know there are so many ritual manuals, manuals,
or the instructions. Translate it. Translate it. Then you can look. So that's it really.
So beyond that they have to collect the water. They collected all those firewood necessary things
and make that food or whatever they have. They can make those things simple. And then practice.
And one of the practices, most time, is meditation. And then joining the prayers.
So now, again, I go back just one more time. With ritual means I say that they are avoiding
all the mundane, busy activities of the physical, verbally, and mentally. And what that means?
When we avoid that, what do we have to do now? And avoiding all the mundane physical activities,
the old activities, through the physical, a good activity, such as in the teaching said,
all stations, certain umbrellas into the stupas or the temples. Something that recollects your
joy in the devotion activities. And breathe calm and peaceful in the morning. When you avoid the
mundane physical work of the verbal activities, when you can't avoid, when you reach it from there,
what do you do? Reciting the mantras. Reciting the prayers. Reciting the suttas. Or join,
read the suttas. Suttas, again, that reflected our joy in the devotees. Inspire, bring,
is more inspire ourself. And compassion, loving kindness. Read the life stories of all those
great masters. Read suttas. Or read with the way and the lives of the activity of the bodhisattvas.
Those are beautiful. Just really touch today's heart when you read those teachings.
Teachings. So read those. And then avoiding the mundane activity of the mental, such as a vow,
or the negative emotions, and discursive thoughts, unnecessarily these and that things. Bring more
love, compassion, joy, relaxed mind, and the natural status, or the docking status, or Mahamudra
status. Relax. And what it will do? It will bring the true inner natures of the mind's qualities.
Peace, harmonious. Those are the warmth of the brain realization. Then the sun of realization
will shine, which is wisdom, and love, and compassion. All united target as one beautiful
status. So those are the teachings said that. And so that is my brief talk for today. And I thank
you very much again for listening to me, and to thank everyone again. And maybe you do now short.